The Santa Fe Time Series Competition Data Data Set A: Laser generated dataOriginal Description:   laser.txt (1,000 points)    This is a univariate time record of a single observed quantity, measured in a physics   laboratory experiment. Full Description:   The data were contributed by Udo Huebner, Phys.-Techn. Bundesanstalt, Braunschweig,   Germany, and were collected primarily by N. B. Abraham and C. O. Weiss. These data were   recorded from a Far-Infrared-Laser in a chaotic state; here is the description from Dr.   Huebner:    The measurements were made on an 81.5-micron 14NH3 cw (FIR) laser, pumped optically by   the P(13) line of an N2O laser via the vibrational aQ(8,7) NH3 transition. The basic   laser setup can be found in Ref. 1. The intensity data was recorded by a LeCroy   oscilloscope. No further processing happened. The experimental signal to noise ratio was   about 300 which means slightly under the half bit uncertainty of the analog to digital   conversion.    The data are a cross-cut through periodic to chaotic intensity pulsations of the laser.   Chaotic pulsations more or less follow the theoretical Lorenz model (see References) of a   two level system.    The data was analyzed. References are e.g.:    1. U. Huebner, N. B. Abraham, and C. O. Weiss: ``Dimensions and entropies of chaotic      intensity pulsations in a single-mode far-infrared NH3 laser.'' Phys. Rev. A 40, p. 6354      (1989)    2. U. Huebner, W. Klische, N. B. Abraham, and C. O. Weiss: ``On problems encountered with      dimension calculations.'' Measures of Complexity and Chaos; Ed. by N. B. Abraham et. al.,      Plenum Press, New York 1989, p. 133    3. U. Huebner, W. Klische, N. B. Abraham, and C. O. Weiss: ``Comparison of Lorenz-like      laser behavior with the Lorenz model.'' Coherence and Quantum Optics VI; Ed. by J. Eberly      et. al., Plenum Press, New York 1989, p. 517 Reason for choice:1. Relatively simple   These data were chosen because they are a good example of the complicated behavior that   can be seen in a clean, stationary, low-dimensional non-trivial physical system for which   the underlying governing equations dynamics are well understood.2. Short data sets   In many fields, such as economics, the data sets may only be a few hundred points long,   and so a great deal of expertise has been developed in analyzing such short data sets.   The size of the data set that we provided, 1,000 points, was chosen to be long compared   to the shortest time series that people seriously analyze, but to be short compared to   the length that some techniques require. We picked a data set that was known to have   low-dimensional dynamics to use as a test case for analyzing short data sets to help make   the task more manageable.3. Prediction error measures   Many forecasting techniques do not easily provide a measure of the prediction error, and   there is no single best approach to determining this error, yet for many uses of time   series forecasting knowing the uncertainty is as important as knowing the prediction. We   included the predicted error in the competition metric in order to evaluate how well the   time dependence of the prediction error was estimated. To help clarify this evaluation,   we chose a data set that is very predictable on the shortest time scales (relatively   simple oscillations), but that has global events that are harder to predict (the rapid   decay of the oscillations).Continuation file:   laser_cont.txt provides approximately 10,000 points beyond the end of the competition data set. We   have included many more points than were needed for the prediction task because the   supplied data set was short; the extra points were added in case there is interest in the   further testing of models derived from the supplied data. 